All right,
let's talk about cost optimization.
So what it is, we exactly know what it is,
is stability to run systems, to deliver business value
but at the lowest price point possible.
That makes a lot of sense.
Now, design principles will adapt a consumption mode.
So pay for only what you use.
So for example, AWS Lambda is one of these services.
If you don't use AWS Lambda, you don't pay for it,
whereas RDS, if you don't use your database,
you still pay for it
because you've provisioned your database.
So it's a really interesting trade off here.
Measure overall efficiency, use CloudWatch.
Are you using your resources effectively?
Then we have a small ad for AWS,
but the idea is that if you move to the cloud
then you stop spending money on data center operations
because AWS does the infrastructure for you,
and they just allow you to focus
on your applications, your systems.
And you need to analyze and attribute expenditure.
So that means if you don't use tags on your AWS resources,
you're gonna have to have a lot of trouble figuring out
which application is costing you a lot of money.
So using tags ensures that you're able
to track the cost of each application
and optimize them over time,
and get a ROI based on how much money
it generates for your business.
Finally, use managed application level services
to reduce the cost of ownership.
So that means that because managed services
operate at cloud scale,
they can offer such a lower cost per transaction or service,
and that's really something
you have to remember about the cloud.
They operate at cloud scale.
I've seen, I've read news about people
who are like three engineers,
only three of them, AWS engineers,
and they manage an application that serves 5 million people.
I mean, imagine that three people
manage a global application on AWS
for 5 million people just because they're able
to leverage the cloud and operate at cloud scale.
So in terms of cost optimization, what do we get?
Making sure we know what cost does something.
So budgets, custom research reports, cost explorer, and,
for example, Reserved Instance reporting,
making sure that if we do reserve an instance,
we're actually using them
and not just paying for unused Reserved Instances.
Cost-effective resources.
So are we using the right stuff?
For example, can we uses spot instances?
They're considerably cheaper.
Yes, they do have some trade-offs, but can we use them?
Can we use cost-effective resources?
Or if we know we're using an EC2 Instance for over a year,
maybe three years, because we provision a database on it,
can we use Reserved Instances?
That would be a great way of saving money.
AWS Glacier.
So are we basically putting our archives
in the lowest price point possible?
And Glacier is the lowest price point possible.
Are we matching supply and demand?
So are we not over provisioning?
So again, Auto Scaling, or maybe AWS Lambda
if you're using serverless infrastructure.
And are we optimizing over time?
So getting information from Trusted Advisor or again,
looking at our Cost and Usage Report,
or even reading the News Blogs.
Let me just share with you a small story.
There was this ELB feature,
and it allowed to use HTTP and HTTPS traffic going in,
but you couldn't do redirect of HTTP to HTTPS before.
And so you had to spin up an application
that was doing the redirect behind the scenes,
and that application was costing me a little bit of money.
But then reading the News Blog,
they said "now you can, straight from the ELB,
configure redirect of HTTP to HTTPS."
And that was great.
It saved me, you know, a bit of money every month
just with that one feature.
So reading the news does allow you to optimize your cost
and make sure you have the right price point.
Last story is, for example,
if you run an application on DynamoDB
but it's really inactive, it's a really slow application,
or you don't need to use a lot of operations,
maybe you're way better off using
the on-demand feature of DynamoDB
instead of using the reserve capacity, WCU, RCU, and so on.
Okay, so that's it just for small anecdotes,
but I hope that helps.
We've seen all the pillars now,
and I hope you understand better
the AWS Well-Architected Framework.
Again, the exam will not ask you deep questions on it,
but it's good as a solution architect
to understand it overall.
And if you're really curious about it,
I encourage you to read the Whitepaper.
Okay, that's it.
I will see you in the next lecture.